Add Access List documentation. (#31781)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/access-controls/access-lists/reference.mdx

and traits are granted by the Access List.

## Access List Membership

Access List members are Teleport users who are granted the roles and traits specified
by the Access List. Upon login, users will be granted these roles and traits along with
their statically defined user permissions. These roles and traits will then tie into
Teleport's existing RBAC system. Members can be optionally granted an expire date, after
which their membership will no longer confer any grants to the user.

Members must meet requirements in order for their membership to be effective.

## Access List Auditing

Access Lists must be defined with an audit frequency, which specifies how often the
Access List must be audited. If the Access List is not audited on time, then the Access
List will be rendered ineffective. All members will not be granted the roles or traits
specified by the Access List. However, owners are still able to audit the lists in order
to re-establish the validity of the Access List.

## Overview of an Access List Resource

```yaml
version: v1
kind: access_list
metadata:
  name: ea6cccbe-ceac-4776-8a89-4b1365fc03f5
spec:
  title: "Access List Title"

>   # audit defines how frequently an Access List and its membership must be audited, along
>   # with the next audit date. If an Access List is not audited by the next audit date, the
>   # roles and traits granted by this Access List will be revoked from the users until the
>   # audit occurs.

Reviewer: Let's remove this note for now, until we iron out what kind of behavior we want.
```suggestion
  # audit defines how frequently an Access List and its membership must be audited, along
  # with the next audit date.
```

---
title: Access List Reference
description: An explanation and overview of Access Lists in Teleport.
---

> <Admonition type="warning">
> Access Lists are currently in Preview mode.
> </Admonition>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Access Lists allow Teleport users to be granted long term access to resources
managed within Teleport. With Access Lists, administrators and access list
owners can regularly audit and control membership to specific roles and
traits, which then tie easily back into Teleport's existing RBAC system.

## What do Access Lists do?

Access Lists grant roles and traits to users on a long lived basis. Users who are added

> to Access Lists as members and meet membership requirements will be granted these roles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to Access Lists and meet membership requirements will be granted these roles
```

> and traits upon login in Teleport. By combining this functionality with an auditing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and traits when they sign in to Teleport. By combining this functionality with an auditing
```

> and traits upon login in Teleport. By combining this functionality with an auditing

Reviewer 2: What is "an auditing functionality"

functionality, Teleport administrators will have an audit trail for long lived access
granted to users of Teleport.

## How do Access Lists compare to Access Requests?

Access Lists are intended for longer lived access to Teleport resources and Access Requests
are intended for temporary elevation of privileges. Access conveyed by an Access List is
expected to live on the order of months and access conveyed by an Access Request is intended
to live on the order of hours or days.

## Access List Ownership

Access List owners are Teleport users who are granted special privileges over
an Access List. These owners are defined explicitly as part of the Access List, and

> must be added by a Teleport administrator. Owners must meet requirements in order for

Reviewer 2: Can we clarify who can add owners? There is not a formal concept of an "administrator" in Teleport.

## Access List Auditing

Access Lists must be defined with an audit frequency, which specifies how often the
Access List must be audited. If the Access List is not audited on time, then the Access
List will be rendered ineffective. All members will not be granted the roles or traits
specified by the Access List. However, owners are still able to audit the lists in order
to re-establish the validity of the Access List.

## Overview of an Access List Resource

```yaml
version: v1
kind: access_list
metadata:
  name: ea6cccbe-ceac-4776-8a89-4b1365fc03f5
spec:
  title: "Access List Title"
  # audit defines how frequently an Access List and its membership must be audited, along
  # with the next audit date. If an Access List is not audited by the next audit date, the
  # roles and traits granted by this Access List will be revoked from the users until the
  # audit occurs.
  audit:
    # Audit frequency defaults to 6 months. Format to golang's time.ParseDuration function:
    # https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration
    frequency: 4380h
    # The next time this Access List must be audited by.
    next_audit_date: "2024-01-01T00:00:00Z"

>   description: "A plaintext description of the Access List and its purpose"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  description: "A description of the Access List and its purpose"
```

  # and membership to the Access List.
  owners:
  - description: test user 1
    name: teleport-admin
  # ownership_requires defines roles and traits that are required for an owner to be
  # able to manage the Access List and its membership.
  ownership_requires:
    roles:
    - access
  # grants controls which roles and traits are granted to users who are members
  # of this Access List.
  grants:
    roles:
    - access
    traits:
      trait1: value1
  # membership_requires defines roles and traits that are required for a member
  # to be granted the above roles and traits. Even if a user has been added as a
  # member of an Access List, if they do not meet these requirements, the membership
  # will have no effect.
  membership_requires:
    roles:
    - required_role1
    traits:
      required_trait1: required_value1
```

## Managing Access Lists from the CLI

In addition to using the web UI, Access Lists can be created and managed from the CLI
as well. To create an access list from the CLI, create an Access List YAML file (as described
above) and run `tctl create <filename>`. Access Lists can be updated by using `tctl create -f <filename>`.

> `tctl` also supports a subset of Access List focused commands under the `tctl acl` subcommand.

Reviewer: Give a link to the CLI reference page somewhere here.
